{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Hey everyone, I\'92m Sarthak. I used to work with bleeding edge Augmented Realtiy and Wearables projects as a researcher, engineer, and entrepreneur. It all started in my first semester of college where I got to meet one of the inventors of Google Glass. \
\
He showed me this glove that could teach people how to play the piano. In less time than it took to finish a TV show you could learn to play a melody. It used this neuroscience phenomenon called Passive Haptic Learning which allowed you to \'93program\'94 muscle memory even when you weren\'92t paying attention. We tested this by having people wear these gloves while they were playing video games or taking the GRE.\
\
The glove itself consisted of a series of vibration motors that were multiplexed with a microcontroller. It could be programmed with code you could steal from stack overflow. Over the course of my first year building and publishing our results I saw people that had never played music in their life have their lives literally transformed. We even did it on live TV by having CNN\'92s weatherman learn piano while giving the weather forecast.\
\
Later on, we found out that Passive Haptic Learning could cut down rehab and recovery time for stroke patients from 18 months to 4 or 6 months. This was when I was convinced that wearables and sensors were the conduit through which we could unlock human ability and potential.\
\
After exploring this more through research and my own projects, I made the amazing discovery\
\
that AR headsets had dozens of sensors and a display that could be used to interact with all this information. I was hooked, and I worked with large organizations like Google, and even started a company to explore the implications of this.\
\
So what really matters when building AR and wearable applications?\
\
Most people think that immersion and futuristic interfaces are the best use of AR. But, research says that raster graphics only lets us create 15-20% of all possible applications. The real value of AR is in the data you collect from sensors and cameras from a headset, which can be used to infer context about the user or the environment. One use of this data actually hacks the human perception system-like passive haptic learning-to allow users to complete tasks or learn information more efficiently. Now, what if we could use this data to build an AI agent? What if this AI agent could help a user remember what happened better? This agent could help you remember checklists for what items you like to buy at the grocery store, what company a KP fellow you met worked at, and prompt you with knowledge from a lightning talk to help you become a world expert on any given topic. Now - imagine what would happen if you shared these memories with other people, and you could tap into the memories and experience that other people went through. We have a long way to go to build the most meaningful AR applications.\
\
How do you know if the AR headset you are building or the new AR headset from Apple is any good? According to the research, if a headset weighs more than 77 grams on the bridge of your nose, you cannot wear the headset for longer than 30 minutes. Even if a headset is lighter than this - if more than 40% of the weight falls on the bridge of the nose you cannot wear the headset comfortably. Ergonomics and wearability matter more than technical features when you build an AR headset.\
\
AR is only powerful when you are immersed working in the real world - whether that\'92s a factory floor, doctor\'92s office, school. AR should not take away from the experience of actually living life. This means AR events should correspond to the events that are happening in a user\'92s day. They should infer the user\'92s and environmental context - like I am driving or putting IKEA furniture together - prompt the user with actionable steps - merge to the right lane to make a turn, that table leg goes into this peg - and then go away. The message should itself not take over a user\'92s field of view. With Google Glass, the display only occupied about 2 degrees of a user\'92s field of view and was positioned 15 degrees vertically offset from the horizon. Due to the small display size we represented events as full-page cards that were organized in a carousel-like timeline. The user would swipe forward to go to the future, and swipe backwards to go to the past. You know an interface is good when you spend more time actually doing work in real life and less time interacting with the system.\
\
No one wants to live in a world where you have graphical puke and advertisements everywhere you see.\
\
An important part of AR and wearables is the actual hardware. Why was Fitbit valued at $2.1 billion when Google acquired them in November 2019, even though you can technically build every part of a Fitbit as an iPhone app? Fitbit\'92s unique insight was that it actually takes a lot of power for a processor to cycle between low and high states, and that by using a real-time operating system they could use a slower processor and still be guaranteed that certain system tasks like health tracking or power management would execute according to schedule. Slower processors also have the benefit of using less power, which meant fitbits could run for weeks instead of a day like the Apple Watch. Finally, the Real Time Operating system itself was so good at multithreading and scheduling tasks that it does not heat up.\
\
When trying to optimize power management, an amazing insight we made was that if we switched to analog circuits for our electronics we needed an order of magnitude less power than an equivalent digital circuit. While analog circuits have some challenges with noise, just like how a processor does not need to cycle between a high and low state, an analog circuit can smoothly transition from a higher potential difference to lower potential difference and perform the same equivalent task.\
\
This has incredible implications for future wearable and IoT devices that could actually harvest power from the user or the environment and never need to recharge your batteries again. This slide is actually outdated because state of the art tribo-electric nano generators invented at Georgia Tech can actually harvest up to 2.5 miliwatts of DC electricity per second, which is enough to power a FM transmitter. You could also store this charge in a capacitor and power a bluetooth beacon to fire every few seconds - which has insane implications for communications, IoT device deployment, and Asset Tracking.\
\
Fitbit\'92s unique insight was that a real-time operating system running on a slower processor would actually give you a predictable way to schedule\
\
The problem with iOS on your Apple Watch is that it is not a real time operating system. This means that apple prioritized a rich app experience over being able to record sensor information accurately or giving you a week of battery life.}